---
title: "Geographic Routing With Energy Constraint in Wireless Multimedia Sensor Networks"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2019-ICEE-WSN
excerpt: 'Energy distribution for extended network lifetime and non-interfering multipath routing are two major challenges in Wireless Multimedia Sensor Networks (WMSNs) routing. Greedy Perimeter Stateless Routing (GPSR) is a simple routing protocol that uses the minimum geographic distance to forward packets toward the sink node. However, it does not consider energy levels and employs a single path. Geographic Energy-Aware Non-Interfering Multipath Routing (GEAM) addresses this limitation by utilizing multipath routing and energy awareness, but maintaining the state of multiple non-interfering areas incurs overhead. In our proposed routing protocol, called Energy-Aware Greedy Stateless Geographic Routing (EAGSGR), we introduce two-path routing without interference by leveraging only two strategic areas. Additionally, we propose a simple method to handle dead-end nodes and cluster issues. EAGSGR demonstrated better performance compared to GPSR and GEAM in terms of QoS parameters, including end-to-end delay, average hop count, energy distribution, and packet delivery ratio.'
date: 2019-04-30
venue: '27th Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8786606'
citation: 'Zeynali Gargary, Danesh, Osali, Fariba, and Afshin Hemmatyar, Ali Mohammad. (2019). &quot;Geographic Routing With Energy Constraint in Wireless Multimedia Sensor Networks&quot; <i>27th Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE)</i>. '
---

Energy distribution for extended network lifetime and non-interfering multipath routing are two major challenges in Wireless Multimedia Sensor Networks (WMSNs) routing. Greedy Perimeter Stateless Routing (GPSR) is a simple routing protocol that uses the minimum geographic distance to forward packets toward the sink node. However, it does not consider energy levels and employs a single path. Geographic Energy-Aware Non-Interfering Multipath Routing (GEAM) addresses this limitation by utilizing multipath routing and energy awareness, but maintaining the state of multiple non-interfering areas incurs overhead. In our proposed routing protocol, called Energy-Aware Greedy Stateless Geographic Routing (EAGSGR), we introduce two-path routing without interference by leveraging only two strategic areas. Additionally, we propose a simple method to handle dead-end nodes and cluster issues. EAGSGR demonstrated better performance compared to GPSR and GEAM in terms of QoS parameters, including end-to-end delay, average hop count, energy distribution, and packet delivery ratio.
